Hello everybody and welcome back in this show.
I'd like to just dive straight into the core principle that we're going to be focused on whenever it
comes to repeating parts in our models and that is thinking modular.
How can we go ahead and make a level or an area with repeating parts that aren't too repetitive but
make it easy for you to construct a level to a world an environment that you can be in right.
Think about ways of building that make parts of your model reusable and modular so that you can produce
one piece and use it multiple times depending on what you're trying to do.
Even if that means you scale something slightly larger for something else.
And one of the best examples of this is Lego.
The reason why it's one of the most popular toys in the world is these building blocks are standardized.
You can fit them together and you can make representations of the world around you.
And this is one of the great things and one of the things that I want you to embrace within the section
is you're making a representation of a world around you especially in the early days before we get to
the detail we really need to make sure that our major shapes are correct.
We need to make sure that our outline basically erupts three dimensional sketch of the world we want
to create is there.
Now one thing to realize is this gives you quick iterations great prototyping potential from just a
few parts.
One of the great things here is you can iterate around really quickly which is basically just going
through the same process again and again and trying out new ideas.
And this is what really speeds up your flow.
It will be a crying shame if you were to go ahead and model an awesome Gothic church realized that it
needed to be a couple of blocks wider and it wasn't easy to fix if you got building blocks you could
probably just move it apart slightly and add the additional blocks and now you do have to be wary of
the scale that you're working at because if you end up doing lots of small parts it becomes a bit owner
risk trying to build a building.
In this particular example anyway as of all of these tiny parts you may want larger more specialized
modular parts.
Now finally if you are a supplier of assets your level design and level maker is going to love the fact
that they can redesign something with your own assets.
The other good thing is if you are that level designer it does mean that you've got a suite of models
that you can put together very quickly in a game engine and be able to create a level really quickly.
And this is just as applicable in Blender not just in a game engine calling it's a level brick quite
easily just be your scene.
So whatever approach you're taking to it's being able to quickly iterate through scene ideas and designs
is spot on and it's really what you want at the beginning of the stage when you're starting to map out
your projects and how it's going to work.
Let's go take a fundamental look at modular design and hop on over into blender okay.
So here we are over in Blender and we've got the default cube in front of us.
Now I'm gonna go up to the very top here and turn on the snapping toe and I'm going to leave it but
I am going to change not just increments but I'm going to snap its absolute grid snap in case I just
move my model around and I don't want it's in there in between the grid so pressing G enables us to
move things around and we've got the fundamental and we've got the fundamental building block that is
Minecraft so you can pretty much make as we experience right back at the very beginning of the course
your ability to make something just out of basic cubes and that is one of the fundamental things when
it comes to modelling.
Now this isn't a very inspiring model if we start working on this so let's tweak it a little first let's
go over into edit mode go to face select select this face and let's move it on the x axis and make it
more of a a wall piece and what I'm going to call this a wall as well.
Now I'm going to recommend that you name your pieces straight away I don't recommend that you leave
it till later.
This hierarchy is going to get very messy very quickly when we start building up a level full of individual
pieces.
Okay so we've got our basic wall piece now one of the key things about using modular designs is they
have to fit together.
So we've got a short wall piece here what are power.
If we have a longer war piece so I'm just going to duplicate it with shift and D and move it across
a little and I'm going to call this long wall and I'm going to rename the other one short wall straight
away.
Now I would encourage you to do this as well.
It's very tempting to not rename something until later on but we've just changed the purpose of this
I'm going to shift it along and unskilled scalar on its y axis by 2.
So we've now got a short wall and a long wall.
Now at this point in time I'd also encourage you to materialize your model even at this beginning stage.
So let's go to our materials and set this one as a base color of maybe green and switch over into the
material view.
So both of these are sharing the same material.
Let's remove the material from our first initial wall and just give it a brand new material and make
it cyan.
This just helps distinguish your individual models.
Now one of the things that we can now do is let's say grab this and make ourselves a corner piece.
And now there are two types of corners.
There's an interior corner and an exterior corner and it does depend on what type of style you're going
for.
As to what you can to try and make say for instance here if I go ahead and duplicate this again.
Now bearing in mind at this point I'm making a whole new bit of mesh data.
I'm not doing a linked duplicate.
If I wanted to reuse this again and it wasn't it's own unique item I would want to link duplicate it
with bolt in the but because we're about to make it something of its own.
Then we can make it have a new material.
I want to make this one yellow.
So this is going to be a corner piece a Hopkins edit mode.
Use a loop cut around here and then pull out this particular face which I'm going to have to go in and
grab and let's pull it out on the y axis.
I'm going to extrude sorry not the y axis the x axis.
There you go.
And now we can have an interior corner by grabbing that edge running down there and let's say levelling
it's to give us a very low poly.
Let's give it a couple of Bevel points there.
Excellent.
So we've now got an interior corner and of course we could go round the other way as well.
So what we could have done knowing that we're going to do that I'm going to undo that because it's a
very simple thing to undo.
I'm going to duplicate this corner piece again.
I'm going to give it a another new material so that we can track our pieces then I can hop into here
and make our interior corner with a bevel and then we're going to have this piece here.
So let's move it first of all not on the z axis a shift in Z.
I'm going to place it roughly where I need it and then I'm going to rotate it on the z axis by 180.
Now you could argue at this point that we could have this piece here having a rounded piece on this
side of it over here.
Now I don't want but I do want two distinct pieces so we can have a sharp corner and a smooth corner
depending on what our needs are.
Let's pop this back against the other piece.
So because it's absolute grit snap it makes it so much easier.
So this will be the final piece in here with the exception of the floor because now we've got a curved
piece in here we've got something to consider when it comes to the floor.
Let's Bevel this edge here and again it's got two points.
So you've got a very simple setup when it comes to this.
Now when it comes to the floor itself let's just add into our world a plane.
This is three dimensional but the plane the floor doesn't have to be now it's entirely up to you how
you decide to organize this.
So if I was to link duplicate the floor piece here and here you now notice that we cannot pop it in
this corner without the two pieces intersecting which is okay.
That's not a particular issue but it's because we've got this curved corner.
If we didn't have that curved corner It'd be absolutely fine.
But we do have it.
So what's the solution here.
Well there are a couple of solutions.
One of them would be to make a tiny piece with that same radius on it.
Now that might be a bit over the top for the type of modelling we're doing.
The other thing that we can do is we can come in and give all of our wall pieces grabbing that lower
edge focusing on it with the number pad period K and just extrude a face out and we can do the same
over here as well.
This is one of the ways of coping with corner pieces like this and of course we can round that myths
off as well.
If we wanted to.
So you've got this corner piece here that we want to extend.
What are the ways of doing that.
Well what I would do in this particular case is I'd grab vertex select grab this individual vertex here
and just extrude it out and then we can go ahead we can extrude again by pressing the eek enjoyment
together and then merge.
By distance bouts that's a bit dodgy because we could forget to do that.
We can simply select the other vertex press the FTA and it'll fill in an edge and then we can go round
select the other ones in that series and fill that in and then we can do the same over here as well
so we can make sure we're in edit mode and pull this back along the y axis to their extrude all the
way on the x axis to.
And there we go.
And then finally select the individual vertex there and fill it in.
Now one of the things that you'll notice at this particular point is that all of our models all of our
assets that we're creating here are all whole sciences.
That is really really important.
It is critical that things snap together.
If you're making modular assets like this if these pieces don't slot together if you've made one that's
got a wall that's slightly thinner or in a slightly different location like that when you try and put
them together.
I mean this is a real mess up here.
But imagine you'd done that you'd spent all this time modeling this wall.
And then when you put it in it doesn't match up with anything else that would really a real heartache.
Now one of the ways around that is making sure that you start with one model and then copy it and then
work along and you can see now that with these simple pieces we can build up quite a complex level.
Now we certainly aren't very inspired pieces but it does enable us to construct pretty much any level
layout or any world layout that we want.
How about Mike.
You've got a Gothic church.
We have it solar.
Well that's fine isn't it.
We can go in press g z and then lift up maybe two and then we get to the building.
And then if you want to put a quick window in one of these that's gonna be something that we want to
do anyway.
Well let's do that let's go GZ to lift it up by 2 and then let's inset this front face and the back
one at the same time.
This is going to enable a bit of a speed build up.
I don't know that's the exact shape I want my balance scale on the z axis and make it a bit smaller
or maybe I want to move it up on the z axis.
Now remember we're snapping turned on it's going to snap to an absolute grid which might not be what
you want but if you are in this mode you can hold down control and just slide.
And now with those two middle bits selected what we can do is EF 3 to bring up the default search menu
and I can bridge edge loops.
Now bridging edge loops is a phenomenal way of making those windows.
And there we go.
Now it can come back in and I do need to do this on every other piece and we don't just have to do it
piece by piece if I select both of these pieces and go into edit mode.
I can select the top surfaces of all of these.
Now it's a bit onerous to do on everything and then extrude it up or indeed move it up by two units.
Now that's one of the great things the multi edit feature now obviously because we have started this
work and then altered it later on that's something you're just gonna have to accept as you progress
through and we got these floor pieces here.
You know what I wants to give them and materials is they don't have anything at the moment let's give
it a darker material but you can see now how you can build up a modular based assets system.
And these are just a few fundamental building blocks.
We've essentially got a corner and interior and an exterior corner and then we have a window a wall
piece and a floor piece.
Now you may want larger floor pieces than that but the critical thing is that all of them match up.
And the easiest way of doing that is to make sure that everything goes to a whole number.
So if things are one two three four units wide.
But remember if you have things that are three units wide and everything else is two you're going to
have to make sure you've got some one unit wide pieces to fill in the gaps.
Otherwise you're going to have overlapping geometry and that's never good.
I want to know what this looks like with a bit of shading on it.
Yeah looks like a toy house that a child might have.
Now I've been playing around for a bit and explaining how you might lay these things out.
I've got a very quick challenge for you okay.
So this should be quite a straightforward challenge I'd like you to make a couple more blocks create
a basic in Syria is what we're aiming for at this point in time and think big Don't worry about details
like skirting boards etc. You really need to think about those at the very beginning because the other
pieces that we've made need to incorporate that from the very beginning.
Otherwise it's going to be difficult to match everything up but we're just thinking big at the moment
we're thinking about general layout so perhaps doorways stairs a ceiling those sorts of things and use
alternate data duplicate pieces you need to complete your building then if you change one or modify
it's going to affect everything.
And remember to give them a material as well.
Pause over there now and give us a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and completes a basic anterior okay.
Everybody welcome back over into blender so the first thing I'm going to work on here.
How dare.
This is a challenging one.
How big is the door going to be.
Is it going to be a two.
It's going to have to be a big piece like this.
I do want to keep my numbers even either 2 4 8 etc. rather than risk having to have an individual paella
or something along those lines if I Piller could be a individual corner piece although I'm likely to
make it two by two and then come into a one by one in the center of that anyway.
So we have this piece here will be a great starting piece for a doorway because it's almost there.
So let's go ahead and duplicate it sit with shifty first of all I'm just going to move it down here
and out of the way so we can work on it.
Focus on it with the number pad period key and let's have a look and see if we can match things up.
Now this is where actually we might be better with a different starting point but we could.
GROSS grab this and lower it down until it's right at the bottom like so you've got intersecting geometry
at that point which is not great for rendering but this was just your block you know that that's done
and dusted we can just move on with it now.
Now the completion test in me would want to perhaps do it this way where we duplicate this block move
it across scalar on the y axis by two just like we did before and then go into edit mode and perhaps
add a couple of loop cuts in to an appropriate place and look it doesn't work anymore that looping that
we wanted to do because of this extra thing that we've dragged out at the bottom not the end of the
world though we can still work with what we've got here by reconstructing geometry but I'm not going
to do that at this point in time and the reason why I'm not going to suffer around with that is look
we've already got one that works yes we might end up with some Z fighting and in sorts of horrible shading
going on the past not our final product we're making basic items at this point in time so that is all
I really need you may notice here that the floor doesn't have any thickness we'll get into more details
on how we structure our models in the upcoming lectures but for now let's just give this a brand new
material I'm going to make this one pink doorway now of course we can rotate that round by 90 degrees
on the z axis and put it somewhere.
So now we can start putting our world together let's bring this down make sure it's in the right place
and we need an interior corner we've already got one of those so we can duplicate that not we shift
the though if you do do shift D and you didn't realize that you have indeed managed to duplicate it
you can look under the mesh tab down here we can see this is cool cube six and look at my naming up
needed to sort that out urgently and this is cube 2 so we can go ahead grab this and change this to
cube 2 and we should think about renaming those.
This one here is called whereas it's short wall 0 001.
No no no no no it's not this is called interior corner
and I'm going to copy that.
I'm going to go to the objects tab then I can click on the next one and paste that in and it will also
append the 001.
Let's go GZ bring that down are 90 on the z axis and then go g y and pull that back.
There we go.
So we've got in Syria coming together really well.
Now some stairs.
Now this one will be an interesting one because we're talking about keeping things nice and simple.
So I would start with a plane in this particular case and I'm going to duplicate that and bring it out.
So let's say here now we've got a decision how long we want the stairs to be.
And now this is interesting because this is where the height comes in as well.
So we've got four meters here which is a pretty high room but we'll work on that anyway.
In fact a lot of game rooms tend to be slightly oversized so I'm fine with that.
And we can either have a smaller stair piece or a large EFP so we can have two by four or just two section
here and then add it together again.
Let's give it its own material before we go ahead and color anything else in let's go in and do that
in object mode.
Let's give it a or what color don't we have a darker blue.
So there we go.
Or purple when we go into edit mode here.
Only use loop cuts.
Now I think I'm going to have four.
Now I need to decide how much they're going up by each time.
So I'm going to go into face mode.
So that's extrude that up by one meter.
This one's going to be extruded up by point 75.
And this one's going to be extruded up.
So Ian and Z by point five.
Oh miss that.
And there you go.
And this one extra shooting up by point to five.
So you've got asked as there.
The great thing is we can just grab that duplicate it with Alton.
Because it's going to be the same thing again.
Maggie GZ one and lift it up.
Now these areas here where you can't see don't matter.
That's one of the important things to take away.
And I think I'm going to create one more room at the back here.
Okay.
So you've got the gist of putting these items together.
I'm going to speed up the video now and just finish off my little room which could turn out to be quite
a big room.
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Some just finished off my building here as you can see there are lots and lots of floor pieces and everything
is now correctly named something to watch out for.
Another thing that you can start doing is putting things into collections as well to help maintain it.
Now I'm going to fly through my world now by pressing shift and the grave key just to move around.
Use the scroll wheel to make it bigger so we've got a front door here that leads up and out.
So this is incredibly useful being able to put this together took hardly any time at all.
If you were trying to model this as whole pieces then you just don't have the flexibility that you'd
have had previously.
Now there are a couple of things here.
And I've left them in deliberately to show you.
So we've got this floor extra floor piece here which is now outside of our world outside of our view
which can be absolutely fine if we're rendering our model from somewhere like here where we don't see
it.
However it's a bit of geometry that's pointless at the moment.
So there is a question to be asked.
Do we make a piece like the windows that don't have these ground pieces.
That's entirely up to you how you approach that sort of modelling and also your team as well you may
find that this piece is being used lots in a game that might be not so very optimal.
It's also pretty low cost just having the single plane there that's not being rendered in your scene
however is something to watch out for.
There are a series of hidden faces here that would also be a waste everywhere where these pieces butts
up together.
We need to consider whether or not it's a solid object or whether or not we need to remove those internal
faces that aren't being shown.
We'll discuss that though in a future lecture.
Now I'd really like to see what you came up with what design did you go for.
I've only decided to flip this round and plonk it in for speed.
Now I did have one issue during the construction of this and that was that I had to go from increments
snapping to vertex snapping sulphate gone slightly out of line and I wasn't able to line things up again.
And that is one of the things that we'll discuss in an upcoming lecture.
Where do we put our origin points at the moment where they are not very good.
And unfortunately there is not a one size fits all answer to that.
So that's it for this lecture please share the work that you've done and I'll see you all in the next
one.